http://www.theverge.com/2016/3/16/11225054/oculus-rift-games-list-price-title
The 29 Oculus Rift games you'll be able to buy at launch - The Verge
Adi Robertson
Two weeks before Oculus launches its Rift virtual reality headset, we're learning what games people will be able to play on it, and how much they can expect to pay for the experience. At the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco, the company released the names and prices of 30 launch titles, one of them bundled with every order, that range from adapted Gear VR puzzle games to super-realistic simulators. It's possible that developers will submit more projects to the store before the Rift starts shipping on March 28th, Oculus head of studios Jason Rubin says, but below is a rough picture of what anyone who preorders the headset will have waiting for them.
So far, there's no real "standard" price for an Oculus Rift game. The most expensive ones cost about the same as a big-budget non-VR game: Rift space flight games EVE: Valkyrie and Elite Dangerous will both sell for $59. Chronos, a role-playing game that Oculus has featured prominently, will cost $49, and so will a VR version of driving simulator Project CARS. Toward the middle of the scale, space exploration game Adrift is $19, and Escher-esque racing game Radial G costs about $25.
There's no standard price for an Oculus Rift game
There are also around 10 Gear VR games coming to the Rift at launch, including hacking puzzler Darknet, turret shooter EVE Gunjack, and cooperative game Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes. The desktop VR versions cost roughly the same as their mobile counterparts, somewhere between $5 and $15. The Gear VR and Oculus Rift use the same basic store interface, and Rubin says developers could one day offer both platforms with one purchase, although that's not happening yet. We're told that overall, Rift games will continue to be priced based on how much they offer, not a standard baseline. "Some of these games are big experiences. Some of these games are not as big an experience," he says. "But if you're paying a sixth of the money for a sixth of the experience, that's [an] equal amount of value."
By this token, we still don't know much about the games that will launch alongside the Oculus Touch motion controllers later this year, although we've tried a few very promising ones. Nor do we know how Oculus might choose to sell an interactive film like Dear Angelica — if it's sold at all, instead of released for free like its earlier projects.
If you spent $600 on Oculus' VR headset (plus around $1,000 on a new gaming PC, if necessary) you'll get at least one game for free: the platformer Lucky's Tale. If you preorder, you'll also get EVE Valkyrie. Beyond that, here's what you can buy alongside the Rift on March 28th.
If you wait longer, you can also get 11 more games, which so far have no exact release date and (mostly) no price.
For comparison, here is an in-depth look at the HTC Vive
Update 11:30am ET: Added non-launch games list.
Correction: Due to a press release error, Eagle Flight was originally listed as a spring, not a fall, release title.
