http://www.theverge.com/2016/11/9/13576202/microsoft-windows-10-virtual-trackpad
Microsoft is adding a virtual trackpad to Windows 10 - The Verge
Tom Warren
Microsoft unveiled its Creators Update for Windows 10 last month, alongside a number of new features that are expected to arrive in March. While Microsoft didn't detail every single new feature, choosing to hide some in a video, it appears the company still has some surprises planned. In a new test version of Windows 10 (build 14965), released today to Windows Insiders, Microsoft has added a virtual trackpad for its operating system.
Microsoft describes the feature as a way to control external monitors with a tablet and no mouse. It's designed to sit in the taskbar, if selected, and provide a virtual trackpad on the screen that can be used to control the mouse and right-click or left-click options. You can now enable a touchpad icon in the notification area, and you can tweak the trackpad gestures in the main Windows 10 settings panel.
Here's the new onscreen trackpad feature for Windows 10. Designed for when you connect to a second display and don't have a mouse pic.twitter.com/yiL3uVLduS
It's an interesting addition that will be welcomed by Windows 10 tablets users that aren't using a keyboard or trackpad, or those who connect tablets up to second displays regularly. That's probably not a lot of Windows 10 users, but Microsoft continues to cater for every use case with Windows 10.
Alongside the virtual trackpad, Microsoft is also tweaking its Sticky Notes app for Windows 10. More languages and regions are now supported, adding the ability to recognize emails, URLs, phone numbers, addresses, and stocks in a number of new countries. Microsoft is also improving its Windows Ink features, with quick access to pen settings, options to shrink and expand the protractor with a mouse, and improved performance of the Sketchpad app when lots of digital ink is used. Windows 10 testers will be able to experiment with all the new changes today, as they roll out worldwide to testers in the fast ring.
