http://www.theverge.com/2016/12/8/13877098/facebook-year-in-review-2016
Facebook’s year in review is just a list of things that are sad - The Verge
Casey Newton
Facebook made its contribution to the weirdly crowded genre of tech platform year-in-review blog posts today, highlighting 2016’s most-discussed stories on its increasingly controversial platform for the sharing of all news fake, real, and imagined. It is a list of people who are dead and democracies that are dying, and it reads like a suicide note. Happy New Year!
Your top 10 most-discussed trends around the world are:
So that’s one response to police brutality (Black Lives Matter), one video game fad, (Pokémon Go), two sports events (Olympics, Super Bowl), two dead guys (David Bowie, Muhammad Ali), and four dubious-to-horrifying regime changes (United States, Brazil, the Philippines, Brexit). Sad! Prince also died this year, but that somehow didn’t make the top 10 here, and that’s also sad.
Facebook also shared its list of top live videos for the year. No. 1 was, of course, Candace “Chewbacca Mom” Payne, who racked up 162 million views laughing while wearing a mask. Payne was the only private citizen to make the list, which is otherwise occupied by news and entertainment brands. Notably, the no. 10 video has only 12 percent of the views of the No. 1 video — suggesting people are avoiding watching live videos almost as much as they’re avoiding making them.
Facebook is also rolling out a more personalized look at 2016 to users. This month, you’ll likely see a video of “meaningful moments” from the past year in your News Feed. You can edit it, if you like, and then share it with friends and family. To find it, visit facebook.com/yearinreview2016.
Here’s the video Mark Zuckerberg shared about 2016 on his page today.
Every year we share a video with some of the biggest moments on Facebook that year. 2016 was a difficult year for a lot of people around the world. But what gives me hope is that even our darkest moments were a little brighter because of the connections we shared with each other. As we head into 2017, I believe more than ever in the power of this community -- to teach us, to console us, to celebrate with us, to open our minds and to help us move forward together. Here's to a healthy and happy 2017!
Update, 1:33 P.M.: This article has been updated to include Zuckerberg’s video.
