http://www.theverge.com/circuitbreaker/2016/11/30/13800338/dronegun-droneshield-anti-drone-gun-security
The Dronegun blocks radio signals to bring illegal drones down - The Verge
Chaim Gartenberg
If you're a drone pilot who wants to fly a drone somewhere you shouldn't, there isn't a whole lot anyone can do right now to stop you, due to a variety of legal complications that govern drones in flight and jamming equipment. But that hasn't stopped an industry of potential anti-drone solutions from springing up, with products like last year's Drone Defender, or DroneShield's new Dronegun.
The Dronegun looks like some sort of futuristic sci-fi weapon ripped straight out of the hands of a space marine, but in reality it simply jams all possible radio frequencies a drone can use to communicate with the operator, causing it to either return to its origin or immediately land (depending on the particular drone in question). It's designed to be operated by a single person, with all of the electronics fitting in the Dronegun itself and an attached backpack. And check out how badass this guy looks in DroneShield's promotional video! Pretty badass.
On a more serious note, illegal drone flights are a serious issue for law enforcement officers and prison guards. There's no clear FAA regulations for allowing police officers to interfere with or jam a drone in flight, but there are very real safety concerns that can arise from unauthorized drones, whether it be smuggling items into a prison or filming a secure location. And while things like the Dronegun may help with that, jamming devices are still banned under FCC code, meaning that regular consumers and even private security firms probably won't be able to legally use one. That said, if regulations change and the Dronegun can be legally used, it could be a helpful tool for improving drone security.
And even if it doesn't ever reach the open market, the Dronegun can always take solace in a possible second career as a starring supergun in the next iteration of Call of Duty.
