http://www.theverge.com/2016/10/6/13176532/oculus-connect-3-how-to-watch-stream-twitch
How to watch the Oculus Connect 3 event: start time, live blog, and streaming - The Verge
Jacob Kastrenakes
Oculus is holding its third-annual developers conference this week, and the main event happens today. It’ll be a 2-hour presentation where the company’s leaders lay out what they see as the next steps for virtual reality and Oculus VR. There’ll likely be new products, new games, and some experimental ideas on show. It should be a good time.
Unlike an iPhone unveiling, we don’t actually know everything we’re going to see here ahead of time. But we do have some idea of what to expect out of Oculus. For one, it’s likely to finally announce pricing and a release date for the Rift’s Touch controllers, which it’s been showing for over a year now. Oculus has also promised there’ll be more than 30 compatible games when the controllers launch, so we should learn what some of those titles are, too.
Beyond that, it’s not entirely clear what we’re in for. We’ll probably see a handful of Oculus executives — though maybe not Palmer Luckey, after he embarrassed the company by funding pro-Trump internet trolls — and possibly an appearance from Facebook’s virtual reality team as well; we already know Mark Zuckerberg is going to show up. Samsung appeared at last year’s keynote to discuss the Gear VR, too, so it’s not out of the question that it or other partners could show up.
Starting time: San Francisco: 10AM / New York: 1PM / London: 6PM / Berlin: 7PM / Moscow: 8PM / Beijing: 1AM (October 7th) / Tokyo: 2AM (October 7th) / Sydney 4AM (October 7th).
Live blog: Tune into The Verge's live blog for up-to-the-second updates, commentary, and pictures directly from the venue.
Live stream: Oculus’ live stream is available on YouTube and Twitch. You can watch on web, mobile, and anywhere else YouTube and Twitch are streaming.
Virtual-reality live stream: This being Oculus, you can of course watch the event as a 360-degree video stream as well, but it’s limited to Gear VR owners. If you have one, you’ll be able to watch it through the NextVR app.
Live tweeting: Follow @Verge on Twitter for the latest headlines.
