http://www.theverge.com/2016/9/29/13090200/pacemaker-mixtape-spotify-dj-app
Pacemaker lets you create and share mixtapes made with Spotify streams - The Verge
Micah Singleton
Pacemaker, the DJ app that allows you to stream and beat-match songs from Spotify, is attempting to resurrect the mixtape. Today the company is introducing the Digital Mixtape, a new feature in version 2.0 of the app that will allow you to use its beat-matching capabilities to create mixtapes that can be shared with friends.
Mixtapes are still popular on sites like SoundCloud and Mixcloud, so Pacemaker isn't exactly breaking new ground, but it is making them dramatically easier to create and quickly share. You can use all of Pacemaker's great mixing features like Mix Now — which lets you mix tracks at the press of a button — and effects like reverb, loop, and Hi-Lo to make a mix like you normally would, but now you can share it with friends or the entire Pacemaker community. Mixtapes can only be played back within Pacemaker, and you'll need a Spotify login to stream music (your local music isn't supported).
Pacemaker has also built social elements around those mixtapes, allowing users to comment, like, and even remix your friend's digital mixtapes, which will show up in your home feed. There's also a list of the most popular mixtapes, and Pacemaker will use an algorithm to recommend mixtapes you may enjoy. "There's an algorithm and it's going to suggest mixtapes for you based on the people you follow, the music you consume, mixtapes and tracks you like," Jonas Norberg, CEO of Pacemaker told The Verge. "We're rolling it out during the next [few] months and it's a project that'll constantly evolve and get better."
To avoid any potential copyright issues, Pacemaker will share the recipe, or the metadata containing how to put the tracks together, rather than the actual tracks. Since the new digital mixtape features will only work with music from Spotify, Pacemaker can stream them again (and generate more revenue for Spotify) when someone else plays your mix.
It's been the easiest DJ app to use since it hit the App Store back in 2014, and after using Pacemaker 2.0 for the past few days, it's clear that tradition will continue. Pacemaker 2.0 is available today on the iOS App Store for your iPhone, iPad, and Apple Watch.
