http://www.theverge.com/2016/6/21/11983446/tumblr-live-streaming-launch-integrates-youtube-younow-more
Tumblr integrates live-streaming from YouTube, YouNow, and other video apps - The Verge
Jacob Kastrenakes
Tumblr is getting into live-streaming — but don't worry, it isn't launching yet another live-streaming platform. Instead, Tumblr will integrate with existing platforms, starting with YouTube, YouNow, Kanvas, and Upclose. Beginning today, you'll be able to share a live stream from any of those apps directly to a Tumblr blog, even sending out alerts to the account's followers, who'll be able to watch from right within Tumblr's website or app.
The intention is to make Tumblr a home for live video, while allowing streamers to choose whichever platform they like the most. Tumblr essentially just views live-streaming as another post type for its bloggers. So it's more than happy to support these outside platforms, since this setup will direct people right back to Tumblr. Tumblr is also giving people a lot of incentive to start — and continue — live-streaming: whenever you're live, your video will be pinned to the top slot of the feed for anyone who follows you.
Two very big names are missing
While Tumblr is launching with some major platforms, it's missing two very notable ones: Facebook Live and Periscope. Tumblr declined to say whether support would come for either app ("We will continue to explore expanding our partner set"), but it's easy to imagine that it just won't happen — or at least won't happen for a little while. These other apps have to build in explicit support for Tumblr; so Tumblr has to get Facebook and Periscope on board if it wants to be a second home for their streams. (Of course, you can embed Facebook Live streams after the fact, but that isn't quite the same.)
Tumblr support launches on the iOS and Android apps for YouNow, Kanvas, and Upclose today. YouTube support launches on Android today, while iOS support is still "a few days" away. Given how great live video could become for promotion, expect to see plenty of it in the coming days from the thirstiest blogs you're following. Tumblr says it's actively working with sites like Mashable and MTV to stream and share events; plus, as was leaked yesterday, it'll also be doing some basic programming around live events — or, at least, random activities that happen to be live.
