http://www.theverge.com/2016/8/23/12604118/500px-photo-app-paint-search-splash-new-feature
This MS Paint-like tool lets you search for images by drawing them - The Verge
Kaitlyn Tiffany
Photo-editing and storage app 500px has unveiled a zany new search feature that lets you input a Microsoft Paint-style sketch of what you're looking for, then returns dozens of suggestions for landscapes, animals, portraits, and travel photography. The feature is called Splash, and so far I'm having the time of my life playing with it at work.
Because I see Jake Gyllenhaal everywhere, I decided to test out Splash by sketching one of my favorite memories: Jake Gyllenhaal explaining the word "separate" on Sesame Street in 2009, with the help of a puppet octopus!
Here's what Splash suggested I look at when I want to relive the basic essence of Jake Gyllenhaal talking to a puppet octopus:
Sure! Jake Gyllenhaal talking to a puppet octopus does have thematic similarities to a photo of a child being given a free balloon, and endearing facial contortions in front of a green screen are Jake's specialty.
Because Splash did so well generating the first Jake Gyllenhaal mood board I decided to try something a little trickier. Jake Gyllenhaal in the 2001 film Donnie Darko, carrying an ax!
I hate to say it but I don't think Splash picked up on the mood of the film Donnie Darko, though it does a really good job understanding just how happy any photo of Jake Gyllenhaal at nearly any stage of his life makes me feel. It makes me feel confident and serene in my surroundings, much like a caribou or a lighthouse!
After these joyful discoveries, I figured it was time to look for something a little darker. It can't all be sunshine and close-ups of goose eyes all the time. So I faithfully recreated the iconic photo of Jake Gyllenhaal and Taylor Swift drinking maple lattes in Park Slope in 2013. It was hard, but I got through it.
As you can see, the smallest brush available to you in Splash is still sort of large. But I think I captured the essence of this moment, and so did Splash!
This is exactly how I feel when thinking about Jake Gyllenhaal and Taylor Swift drinking maple lattes together:
Anyway, have fun playing with Splash — I think it will really help if you are looking to make a Pinterest board with a highly specific color scheme, and it will give you an excuse to think about my boyfriend Jake Gyllenhaal for a little bit.
