http://www.theverge.com/circuitbreaker/2016/8/25/12631144/fujifilm-xa3-new-model-announced-selfie-features-software
Fujifilm's new X-A3 is a selfie powerhouse - The Verge
Sean O'Kane
Fujifilm has announced the X-A3, a new version of the entry-level model in its X-series of mirrorless interchangeable lens cameras. The X-A3 improves on its predecessor with a new 24.2-megapixel APS-C sensor, better autofocus, and a screen that flips up 180 degrees — that’s five degrees better than the X-A2, a camera that was already tailor-made for selfies.
The company was apparently able to squeeze five more degrees out of the screen’s rotation thanks to a new "slide-and-tilt mechanism," according to the press release, and should make it even easier to use at arm’s length. It’s not the only part of the press release that Fujifilm tries to measure a new feature by its selfie-ability. The company’s really pushing that angle with the X-A3, adding things like a new smile detection feature and a skin-tone brightening function to the face and eye detection features found on the X-A2.
Of course, not everyone is a selfie fanatic. But that shouldn’t discourage you from the X-A3, which still appears to be a really good camera. Aside from the bigger 24.2-megapixel sensor, the X-A3 has a new 77-point autofocus system (with 49 points available in "Single Point" mode). Fujifilm has also added more of its vaunted film simulations — PRO Neg.Hi and PRO Neg.Std, most notably — to bring the total number available on the X-A3 to 11. The Fujifilm X-A3 will be available in silver, brown, or pink this October. It will be sold with the 16-50mm f3.5-5.6 OIS II kit lens for $599.
Alongside the X-A3, Fujifilm also announced a new wide angle prime lens. The XF 23mm f2 R WR, as it’s called, will be compatible with all of Fujifilm’s interchangeable lens X-series cameras. It’s weather and dust-resistant, and can focus in 0.05 seconds when used with the X-Pro2 and X-T2, according to Fujifilm. The new lens will be available in September for $449 — just in time for the release of the X-T2.
